# Staging, unstaging and the Index Editor

Git has a special place called the *Index*, which allows you to select
only a subset of the current changes in your working tree for
committing, rather than all of your changes. A typical scenario where
this is useful is when you're working on a larger feature involving the
files A, B and C, and while working on these files, you discover several
unrelated typos, which you want to fix and commit separately.

If the typos are in files other than A, B and C, the Index could be
used, but is not really needed. For example, if the typos were in the
files X and Y, you could simply select these two files in the *Files*
view and click on the **Commit** button in the main toolbar. This is due
to the fact that in SmartGit what will be committed is determined by the
current selection. If you had selected the repository root in the
*Repositories* view instead before committing, all changed files in the
working tree would have been chosen for the commit.

Now, what if some of those typos were in files related to the feature
you've been working on? In this case, Git's Index is needed, because it
allows you to not only pick out certain files for the next commit, but
also certain chunks *within* files. In the following, let's assume your
typos were in the files C and D. Therefore, we need to put the entire
file D, and all the relevant chunks in file C in the Index.

Putting something in the Index is called *staging*, and the opposite,
i.e. moving something out of the Index, is called *unstaging*. Here's
how you stage and unstage an entire file (in this case file D) in
SmartGit:

-   **Staging:** On the *Files* view, select one or more files to stage.
    Then either click on the **Stage** button on the main toolbar, or
    select **Local\|Stage** in the main menu.
-   **Unstaging:** On the *Files* view, select one or more files to
    unstage. Then either click on the **Unstage** button on the main
    toolbar, or select **Local\|Unstage** in the main menu.

For the file C, from which we want to stage only parts rather than
everything, we need SmartGit's so-called *Index Editor*. To open it,
select the file in the *Files* view, then select either **Index Editor**
in the file's context menu, or select **Local\|Index Editor** from the
main menu. Here's what the Index Editor looks like:

![](images/staging-unstaging-and-the-index-editor.png)

As you can see, the Index Editor consists of three separate text
editors, which show the state of a particular file in the HEAD of the
repository, in the Index, and in the working tree, respectively. Only
the contents of the middle and the right editor can be modified. You can
alter the contents of the Index either by editing the contents of the
middle editor, or by moving chunks between the three editors. To do so,
either click on the arrow and 'x' buttons between the editors, or click
on the **Take Left** and **Take Right** buttons on the toolbar. After
you're done, save your changes and close the Index Editor.

Note that when you do a commit, you may have to choose at the top of the
**Commit** dialog between committing the staged changes and committing
the local changes. The former includes only the contents of the Index,
while the latter includes all of your changes in the working tree,
including the contents of the Index.


